hey you guys this is Janice Wilson
Hughes here in my evolution stoneware
pottery studio for another quick tip on
how to rehydrate clay now if you follow
my videos you know that I've recently
done videos on two different methods on
rehydrating entire 25 pound blocks of
clay what I'm going to show you today is
going to build on the second method that
I showed you but apply that to just a
little piece of clay now what you can do
with this is take bone dry clay say
maybe a chunk of slab that you rolled
out previously it got dry but you really
need to use it instead of rolling out a
new piece and reclaiming that dry piece
you can go from bone dry - completely
workable and joinable to another piece
of clay in about 15 minutes I'm going to
show you how check it out
I don't know about you guys but a lot of
times when I need to work with a slab I
will roll out more than I need and then
I tend to keep that around thinking well
depending on what I mean tomorrow I
might be able to use the rest of this
and then sometimes it just dries out and
doesn't get used well I'm going to take
a little piece of slab here this is very
very hard this is bone dry and go ahead
and rehydrate this - to a point where it
would be workable to join to the bottom
of a small pot or something like that
I'm going to use a baggie if you had a
bigger piece of clay you could use a
larger bag like a large freezer bag so
take my clay put it here in my bag and
I'm just going to add some water to it
Oh God my sponge wet and squeeze some
water in here this has a lot of surface
area to it so it should absorb the water
very quickly I'm going to use the water
in the bucket here to push the air out
of the bag
you man seal it up
I'm sure that you actually seal it you
don't want this to fill up with water
just one to use the small amount of
water that you control that you chose to
put in there
okay
so
almost no air in this bag got water in
here drop it down in this bucket the
water pressure from all the water in the
bucket again it's going to distribute
that water around the slab of clay and
apply pressure so that the water absorbs
in and rehydrates that clay check back
okay here's our slab whoop now remember
this was rock hard earlier this is a
totally pliable piece of clay now you
could certainly join this onto the
bottom of a pot at this point if you
wanted to that is pretty sweet in my
book and you may have your doubts think
that maybe it will crack later well I
did this yesterday and it worked
wonderfully and it's still holding up
the pot is dry now and everything looks
good
so I hope this helps you guys in your
own studio and I'll see you guys later
bye
you